# cowlogdata
cowlogdata, an R package to visualize obersrvations generated by the event logging software CowLog

Kelly Wallace (kwallace@utexas.edu)

CowLog: http://cowlog.org/cowlog3/

# functions
<b>clflag</b><br>
clflag is designed to identify any cowlog csv observation sheets that do may host scorer input errors. It flags csv files that do not include an END entry, that have fewer than entries, and that report negative time differences between entries.

<b>cldata</b><br>
cldata generates a summary dataframe based on individual cowlog csv observations. Additionaly it generates a list of zones dientified in the observations.

<b>clpie</b><br>
to visualize where individuals are spending time in the observations, clpie generates a pie graph of proportion time in each zone, and can generate pie graphs per category.

<b>clboxplot</b><br>
to visualize and compare the distribution of values, clboxplot generates bosplots of values and additionally can compares distributions across categories via t-tests and anovas.

<b>clreg</b><br>
to determine which metrics correlate with each other and/or show interaction effects of factors, clreg runs linear regression models and generates summary scatterplots.

<b>clseries</b><br>
to visualize average movement in the arena over time, clseries splits each observation into ten even segments of the same length and visualizes relative time in zones per segment.


# notes

NOTE: This package is designed to use csv sheets from just base cowlog data, not data that has used modifiers

NOTE: This package is designed to be used for locational data, not event logs. See below for the individual csv sheet requirements. 

NOTE: Many of the functions included in this package likely only work on Windows due to path character specifications (forwardslash vs backslash). 

<b>example filename</b> 
"arthur_male_round1.csv"
Note: the filename should be separated by underscores, and the index of relevant categocial data should be included. 


<b>example csv sheet</b>
The csv sheets, and the way CowLog shoudl be intended for use in relation to this package, is tracking locatio data of a focal individual across different areas of an apparatus/enclosure. As seen below, a time stamp is recorded of when an individual transitioned to a new zone (e.g. 6.3 seconds into the observation, the focal individual moved from Zone B to Zone C)

Note: column names shoudl always be time and code (optional to include class but that is what CowLog generates)
Note: when calculating time, time always begins at the first entry (shown ehre as 5 seconds into the observation)
Note: every spreadsheet must end with a last observation coded END

time     code      class
-----    ------    -------
5.1       zone_B     1
6.3       zone_C     1
12.4      zone_B     1
14.8      zone_A     1
22.3      zone_D     1
35.6      zone_E     1
35.8      zone_D     1
36.0      zone_E     1
39.1      zone_A     1
45.2      zone_C     1
70.4      END        0

# necessary packages

dplyr
ggplot2
viridis
stringr
broom






#adding more TBD
